Privilege levels are 0-3 the lower you go the more access you have. 
The reason to use privilege levels is to improve the reliability of the operating system. 
The highest privilege level 0 is used for segments that contain the moost critical code modules in the system, usually the kernel of an operating system. 
The outer rings are used for segments that contain code modules for less critical software. 

Code modules in lower provilege segments can only access modules operating at higher privilege segments by means of a tightly controlled and protected interface called a gate. 
Attempts to access higher privilege segments without going through a protection gate and without having sufficient access rights causes a general-protection exception (#GP) to be generated.

If an operating system or executive uses this mutilevel protection mechanism, a call to a procedure that is in a mor provilieged protection level than the calling procedure is handeled in a similar manner as a far call
The differences are as follows: 

1) The segment selector provided in the CALL instruction references a special data structure called a "call gete descriptor". 
Among other things, the call gate descriptor provides the following: 
		A) Access rights information 

		B) THe segment selector for the code segment of the called procedure 

		C) an offset into the code segement (That is, the instruction pointer for the called procedure)

2) The processor switches to a new stack to execute the called procedure. Each privilege level has its own stack. The segment selector and stack pointer for the privilege level 3 stack are stored in the SS and ESP registers, respectiviely, and are automatically saved when a call to a move privileged level occurs. The segment selectors and stack pointers for the privilege level 2, 1, and 0 stacks are stored in a system segment called the task state segment (TSS).

		A) An intel Task State Segment (TSS) is a data structure that stores the execution state of a task, including register values, stack pointers, and control information. It is primarily used by the operating system to manage multitasking and handle hardware-based task switching, and it provides the CPU with the necessary infomation to switch between different tasks or to change privilege levels, particularly for handling interrups 

The use of all call gate and the TSS during a stack switch are transparent to the calling procedure, except when a general-protection exception is raised. 
