To improve performance, more recent processors support modifications to the processor's operation during the string stor operation initiated with the MOVS, MOVSB, STOS, and STOSB instructions. 
This optimized operation, called "Fast-string operation" is used when the execution of one of those instructions meets certain initial conditions. 
Instructions using fast-string operation effectively operate on the string in groups that may include multiple elements of the native data size (byte, word, doubleword, or quadword). 
With fast-string operation, the processor recognizes interrupts and data breakpoints only on boundaries between these groups. 
Fast-string operation is used only if the source and destination addresses both use either the WB or WC memory types. 

The initial conditions for fast-string operation are implementation-specific and may vary with the native string size. 
Examples of  parameters that may impact the use of fast-string opertion include the following: 
1) The alignment indicatd in the EDI and ESI alignment register. 
2) The address order of the string operation 
3) The value of the initial operation counter (ECX)
4) The difference between the source and destination addresses. 

Software can disable fast-string operation by clearing the fast-string-enable biit (bit 0) of IA32_MISC_ENABLE MSR. 
However, Intel recommends that system software always enable fast-string operation. 

When fast-string opertaion is enabled (because IA32_MISC_ENABLE[0] = 1), some processors may futher enhance the operation of the REP MOVSB and REP STOSB instructions. 
A processor supports these enchancements if CPUID.(EAX=07H, ECX=0H):EBX[bit 9] is 1.

The stores produced by fast-string operation may appear to execute out of order. 
Software dependent upon sequential store ordering should not use string operations for the entire data structure to be stored. 
Data and semaphores should be sparated. 
Order-dependent code should write to a discrete semaphore variable after any string operations to allow correctly ordered data to be seen by all processors. 
Atomicity of load and stro operatiojns is guaranteed only for native data elements of the string with native data size, and only if they are included in a single cache line. 
