The 64-bit extensions expand branching mechanisms to accommodate branches in 64-bit linear-address space. 
These are: 
	1) Near-branch semantics are redefined in 64-bit mode. 

	2) in 64-bit mode and compatibility mode, 64-bit call-gate descriptors for far calls are avaliable. 

In 64-bit mode, the operand size for all near braches (CALL, RET, JCC, JCXZ, JMP, and LOOP) is forced to 64 bits. 
Thes instrcutions update the 64-bit RIP without the need for the REX operand-size prefix. 

The following aspects of near braches are controlled by the effective operand size: 

	1) Truncation of the size of the instruction pointer. 

	2) size of a stack pop or push, due to a CALL or RET 

	3) Indirect-branch operand size. 

Om 64-bit mode, all of the above actions are forced to 64 bits regardless of operand size prefixes (operand size prefixes are silently ignored). 
However, the displacment field for relative branches is still limited to 32-bits by an address size prefix. 

Software typically uses far branches to change privilege levels. 
The lagacy IA-32 architecture proves the call-gate mechanism to allow software to branch from one privielge level to another, although call gates can also be used for branches that do not change privilege levels. 
WHen call gates are used, the selector portion of the direct or indirect pointer references a gate descriptor (the offset in the instruction is ignored). 
The offset to the destination's coade segment is taken from the call-gate descriptor. 

64-bit mode redefines the type value of a 32-bit call-gate descriptor type to a 64-bit call gate descriptor and expands the size of the 64-bit descriptor to hold a 64-bit offset. 
The 64-bit mode call-gate descriptor allows far branches that reference any location in the supported linear-address space. 
These call gates also hold the target code selector (CS), allowing changes to privilege level and default size as a result of the gat transition. 

Because immediates are generally specified up to 32 bits, the only way to specify a full 64-bit absolute RIP in 64-bit mode is with an indirect branch. 
For this reason, direct branches are liminated from the instruction set in 64-bit mode. 

64-bit mode also expands the semantics of the SYSENTER and SYSEXIT  instructions so that the instructions operate within 64-bit memory space. 
The mode also introduces two new instructions: SYSCALL and SYSRET (which are valid only in 64-bit mode). 

