Intel AES-NI provides six instructions to accelerate symmetric block encryption/decryption of 128-bit data blocks using the Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) specified by the NIST publication FIPS 197. 


Two instructions target the AES encryption rounds: 

	1) AESENC -- This instruction performs a single round of an AES encryption flow using one/two/four (depending on vector length) 128-bit data (state) from the first source operand with one/two/four (depending on vector length) round key(s) from the second source operand, and stores the result in the destination operand. Using the AESENC instruction for all but the last encryption rounds. For the las encryption round, use the AESENCCLAST instruction. VEX and EVEX encoded versions of the instruction allow 3-operand (non-destruvtive) operand. The lagacy encoded verions of the instruction require that the first source operand and the destinationoperand are the same and must be XMM register. The EVEX encoded form of this instruction does not support memory fault suppression. 

	2) AESENCLAST -- This instruction performs the last round of an AES encryption flow using one/two/four (depending on vector length) 128-bit data (state) from the fist source operand with one/two/four (depending on vector length) round key(s) from the second source operand, and stores the result in the destination operand. VEX and EVEX encoded versions of the instruction allows 3-operand (non-destructive) operation. The lagacy encoded versions of the instruction require that the first source operand and the destination operand are the same and must ne an XMM register. The EVEX encoded form of this instruction does not support memory fault suppression. 

Two instructions target AES decryption rounds using the Equivalent Inverse Cipher: 

	1) AESDEC -- This instruction performs a single round of the AES decryption flow using the Equivalent Inverse Cipher, using one/two/four (depending on vector length) 128-bit data (state) from the first source operand with one/two/four (depending on vector) round key(s) from the second source oprand, and stores the result in the destination operand. Use this instruction for all but the last decryption round. Vex and EVEX encoded version of the instruction allo 3-operand (non-destructive) operation. The legacy encoded versions of the instruction require that the first source operand and the destination operand are the same and must be an XMM register. The EVEX encoded form of this instruction does not support memory fault suppression.


	2) AESDECLAST -- This instruction performs the last round of the AES decryption flow using the Equivalent Inverse Cipher, using one/two/four (depending on vector length) 128-bit data (state) from the first source operand with one/two/four (depending on vector length) round key(s) from the second source operand, and stores the result in the destination operand. VEX and EVEX encoded versions of the instruction allow 3-operand (non-destructive) operation. The legacy encoded versions of the instruction require that the first source operand and the destination operand are the same and must be XMM register. The EVEX encoded form of this instruction does not support memory fault suppression. 

One instruction targets the inverse MixColumn transformation primitive: 

	1) AESIMC -- Perform the InvMixColumns transformation on the source operand and store the result in the destination operand. The destination operand is an XMM register. The source operand can be an XMM register or a 128-bit memory location. 128-bit Legacy SSE version: Bits (MAXVL-1:128) of the corresponding YMM destination register remain unchanged. VEX.128 encoded version: Bits (MAXVL-1:128) of the destination YMM register are zeroed

One instruction targets genceration of round keys from the cipher key for the AES encryption/decryption rounds: 

	1) AESKEYGEN -- Assist in expanding the AES cipher key, by computing steps towards generating a round key for encryption, using 128-bit data specified in the source operand and an 8-bit round constant specified as an immediate, store the result in the destination operand. The destination operand is an XMM register. The source operand can be an XXM register or a 128-bit memory location. 128-bit Lagacy SSE version: Bits (MAXVL-1:128) of the corresponding YMM destination register remain unchanged. VEX.128 encoded version: Bits (MAXVL-1:128) of the destination YMM regster are zeroed
