If CR0.NE[bit 5] is 0, the MS-DOS compatibility mode for handling floating-point exceptions is selected. 
In this moode, the software exception handler for floating-point exceptions is invoked externally using the processor's INTR (not used any more FERR# and IGNNE#) pins. 
This method of reporting floating-point errors and invoking an exception handler is provided to support the floating-point exception handleing mechanism used in PC systems that are running the MS-DOS or Windows* 95 operations system. 

The MS-DOS compatibility mode is typically used as follows to invoke the floating-point exception handler: 

	1) If the x87 FPU detects an unmasked floating-point exception, it sets the flag for the exception and the ES flag in the x87 FPU status word.

	2) If the IGNNE# pins is deasserted, the x87 FPU then asserts the FERR# pin either immediately, or else delayed (deferred) until just before the execution of the next waiting floating-point instruction or MMX instruction. Whether the FERR# pin is asserted immediately or delayed depends on the type of processor, the instruction, and the type of exception. 

	3) If a preceding floating-point instruction has set the exception flag for an unmasked x87 FPU exception, the processor freezes just before executing the next WAIT instruction, waiting floating-point instruction, or MMX instruction. Whether the FERR# pin was asserted at the preceding floating-point instruction or is just now being asserted, the freezing of the processor assures that the x87 FPU exception handler will be invoked before the new floating-point (or MMX) instruction get executed

	4) The FERR# pin is connected through external hardware to IRQ13 of a cascaded, programmable interrupt controller (PIC). When the FERR# pins is asserted, the PIC is programmed to generate an interrupt 75H

	5) The PIC asserts the INTR pin on the processor to signal the interrupt 75H

	6) The BIOS for the PC system handles the interrupt 75H by branching to the interrupt 02H (NMI) interrupt handler

	7) The interrupt 02H handler determines if the interrupt is the result of NMI interrupt or a floating-point exception

	8) If a floating-point exception is detected, the interrupt 02H handler branches to the floating-point exception handler. 

If the IGNN# pin is asserted, the processor ignores floating-point error conditions.
This pin is provided to inhibit floating-point exceptions from being generated while the floating-point exception handler is servicing a previously signaled floating-point exception. 
