The data transfer instructions perform the following operations: 

1) Load a floating-point, integer, or packed BCD operand from memory into the ST(0) register

2) Store the value in an ST(0) register to memory in floating-point, integer, or packed NCD format

3) Move values between registers in the x87 FPU register stack. 

The FLD (load floating-point) instruction pushes a floating-point operand from memory onto the top of the x87 FPU data-register stack. 
If the operand is in single precision or double precision floating-point format, it is automatically converted to double extended precision floating-point format. 
The instruction can also be used to push the value in a selected x87 FPU data register onto the top of the register stack.

The FILD (load integer) instruction converts an integer operand in memory into double extended precision floating-point format and pushes the value onto the top of the register stack. 
The FBLD (load packed decimal) instruction performs the same load operation for a packed BCD operand in memory. 

The FST (store floating-point) and FIST (store integer) instructions store the value in register ST(0) in memory in the destination format (floating-point or integer, respectively). 
Again, the format conversion is carried out automaticlly. 

The FSTP (store floating-point and pop), FISTP (store integer and poip), and FBSTP (store packed decimal and pop) instructions stroe the value in the ST(0) registers into memory in the destination format (floating-point, integer, or packed BCD), then performs a "pop" operation on the register stack. 
A pop operation causes the ST(0) register to be marked empty and the stack pointer (TOP) in the x87 FPU control work to be incremented by 1. 
The FSTP instruction can also be used to copy the value in the ST(0) register to another x87 FPU register [ST(i)] with the value in ST(0)

The FXCH (exchange register contents) instruction exchanges the value in a selected register in the stack [ST(i)] with the value in ST(0). 

The FCMOVcc (condtional move) instructions move the value in a selected register in the stack [ST(i)] to register ST(0) if a condition specified with a condition code (cc) is satified. 
The condition being tested for is represented by the status flags in the EFLAGS register. 
The condition cod mnemonics are appended to the letters "FCMOV" to form the mnemonic for a FCMOVcc intruction

Like the CMOVcc instructions, the FCMOVcc instructions are useful for optimizing small IF constructions. 
They help eliminate branching overhead for IF operations and the psiibility of branch mispreditions by the processor. 

Software can check if the FCMcc instructions are supported by checking the processor's feature information with the CPUID instruction
