The following instructions compare or classify floating-point values: 

FCOM/FCOMP/FCOMPP		Compare floating-point and set x87 FPU condition code flags. 

FUCOM/FUCOMP/FUCOMPP		Unordered compare floating-point and set x87 FPU condition code flags.

FICOM/FICOMP			Compare integer and ser x87 FPU condition code flags. 

FCOMI/FCOMIP			Compare floating-point and set EFLAGS status flags. 

FUCOMI/FUCOMIP			Unordered compare floating-point and set EFLAGS status flags. 

FTST				Test (compare floating-point with 0.0)

FXAM 				Examine. 


Comparison of floating-point values differ from comparison of integers because floating-point values have four (rather than three) mutually exclusive relationships:  less than, equal, greater than, and unordered. 

The unordered relationship is true when at least one of the two values being compared is an NaN (Not-a-Number special value in floating-point arithmetic, which can be generated by invalid operations on an intel CPU) or in an unsupported format. 
This additioinal relationship is required because, by definition, NaNs are not numbers, so they cannot have less than, equal, or greater than relationships with other floating-point values. 

The FCOM, FCOMP, and FCOMPP instructions compare the value in register ST(0) with a floating-opint source operand and set the condition code flags (C0, C2, and C3) in the x87 FPU status word according to the results. 

If an unordered condition is detected (one or both of the values are NaNs or in an undefined format), a foating-point invalid-operation exception is generated. 

The pop version of the instruction pop the x87 FPU register stack once or twice after the comparison operation is complete. 

The FUCOM, FUCOMP, and FUCOMPP instructions operate the same as the FCOM, FCOMP, and FCOMPP instructions 
The only difference is that with the FUCOM, FUCOMP, and FUCOMPP instrucions, if an unordered condition is detected because one or both of the operands are QNaNs, the floating-point invalid-operation exception is not generated. 

The FICOM and FICOMP instructions also operate the same as the FCOM and FCOMP instructions, except that the source operand is an integer value in memory. 
The integer value is automatically converted into an double extended precision floating-point value priop to making the comparison.  
The FICOMP insstruction pops the x87 FPU register stack following the comparison operation. 

The FTST instruction performs the same  operation as the FCOM instruction, except that the value in register ST(0) is alwasy compared with the value 0.0

The FCOMI and FCOMIP instructions were introduced into the IA-32 architecture in the P6 processors. 
They perform the same comparison as the FCOM and FCOMP instructions, except that they set status flags (ZF, PF, and CF) in the EFLAGS register to indicate the reuslts of the comparison instead of the x87 FPU condition code flags. 
The FCOMI and FCOMIP instructions allow condition branch instructions (Jcc) to be executed directly from the results of their comparison. 

Software can check if the FCOMI and FCOMIP instructions are supported by checking the processor's feature information with the CPUID instruction. 

The FUCOMI and FUCOMIP instructions operate the same as the FCOMI and FCOMIP instructions, except that they do not generate a floating-point invalid-operation exception if the unordered condition is the result of one or both of the operands being a QNaN. 
The FCOMIP and FUCOMIP instructions pop the x87 FPU register stack following the comparison operation. 


The FXAM instruction determines the classification of the floating-point value in the ST(0) register (that is, weather the value is zero, a denormal number, a normal finite number, infine, a NaN, or an unsupported format) or the register is empty. 

