The following floating-point instructions perform basic arithmetic operations on floating-point numbers. 
Where applicablem, these instructions match IEEE standard 754:

FADD/FADDP		Add floating-point

FIADD			Add integer to floating-point 

FSUB/FSUBP		Subtract floaint-point 

FISUB			Subtract integer from floating-point 

FSUBR/FSUBRP		Reverse subtract floating-point

FISUBR			Reverse subtract floating-point from integer

FMUL/FMULP		Multiply floating-point 

FIMUL			Multiply integer by floating-point 

FDIV/FDIVP		Divide floating-point

FIDIV			Divide floating-point by integer

FDIVR/FDIVRP		Reverse divide

FIDIVR			Reverse divide integer by floating-point

FABS			absolute value

FCHS			Change sign

FSQRT			Square root

FPREM			Partial remainder

FPREM1			IEE partial reminder

FRNDINT 		Round to integer value

FXTRACT			Extract eponent and significand 



The add, subtract, multiply, and divide instructions operate on the following types of operands: 

	1) Two x87 FPPU data registers 

	2) An x87 FPU data register and a floating-point or integer value in memory

Operands in memory can be in single precision floating-point, double precision floating-point, word-integer, or doubleword-integer format. 
They are converted to double extended precision floating-point format automatically.

Revers versions of the subtract (FSUBR) and divide (FDIVR) instructions enable effcient coding. 
For example, the following opetions are available with the FSUB and FSUBR instructions for operating on values in a specified x87 FPU data register ST(i) and the ST(0) register: 

FSUB: 
	ST(0) := ST(0) - ST(i)

	ST(i) := ST(i) - ST(0)

FSUBR
	ST(0) := ST(i) - ST(0)

	ST(i) := ST(0) - ST(i)

These instructions eliminate the need to exchange values between the ST(0) register and another x87 register to perfrom a subtraction or division. 

The pop versions of the add, subtract, multiply, and divide instructions offer the option of popping the x87 FPU register stack following the arithmetic operation.
These instructions operate on values on the ST(i) and ST(0) registers, store the result in the ST(i) register, and pop the ST(0) register, store the result in the ST(i) register, and pop the ST(0) register.

The FPREM instruction computes the remainder from the division of two operands in the manner used by the Intel 8087 and Intel 287 math coprocessors; the FPREM1 instruction computes the remainder in the manner specified in the IEEE Standard 754. 

The FSQRT instruction computes the square root of the source operand. 

The FRNDINT instruction returns a floating-point value that is the integral value closest to the source value in the direction of the rounding mode specified in the RC field of the x87 FPU control word. 

The FABS, FCHS, and FXTRACT instructions perform convenient arithmetic operations. 
The FABS instruction produces the absoulte value of the source operand. 
The FCHS instruction changes the sign of the source operand. 
The FXTRACT instrcution separates the source operand into its exponent and fraction and stores each value in a register in floating-point format. 




