Intel SSE data movement instructions move single precision floating-point data between XMM registers and between an XMM register and memory. 

The MOVAPS (move aligned packed single precision floating-point values) instrcutions transfers a double quadword operand containing four packed single precision floating-point values from memory to an XMM register and vice versa, or between XMM registers. 
The memory address must be aligned to a 16-byte boundary; otherwise, a general-protection exception (#GP) is generated. 

The MOVUPS (move unaligned packed single precision, floating-point) instruction performs the same operation as the MOVAPS instruction, except that 16-byte alignment of a memory address is not required. 

The MOVSS (move scalar single precision floating-point) instruction transfers a 32-bit single precision floating-point operand from memory to the low doubleword of an XMM register and vice versa, or between XMM registers. 

The MOVLPS (move low packed single precision floating-point) instruction moves two packed single precision floating-point values from memory to the low quadword of an XMM register and vice versa. 
The high quadword of the register is left unchanged. 

The MOVHPS (move high packed single precision floating-point) instruction moves two packed single precision floating-point values from memory to the high quadword of an XMM register and vice versa. 
The low quadword of the register is left unchanged. 

The MOVLHPS (move packed single precision floating-point low to high ) instruction moves two packed single precision floating-point values from the low quadword of the source XMM register into the high quadword of the destination XMM register. 
The low quadword of the destination register is left unchanged. 

The MOVHLPS (move packed single precision floating-point high to low) instruction moves two packed single precision floating-point values from the high quadword of the source XMM register into the low quadword of the destination XMM register. 
The high quadword of the destination register is left unchanged. 

The MOVMSKPS (move packed single precision floating-point mask) instruction transfers the most significant bit of each of the four packed single precision floating-point numbers in an XMM register to a general-purose register. 
This 4-bit value can then be used as a condition to perform branching. 
